Back to the front-end then, to the posts service to be precise. When adding a post, we'll now have to upload
our file or to be precise, we want to send a request that includes both, our normal data and the file.
Previously what we did is we used post method and we simply attached the post,
well object here as a body and that would automatically send it as JSON to the back-end.
Now JSON can't include a file, so I will now edit this. Instead of sending JSON,
I will now send form data.
So let's create a new constant and name it postData,
the name is up to you
and this will be a new form data object.
This is an object provided by Javascript and formData is basically a data format which allows us to combine
text values and blurb,
so file values.
We use it by now accessing post data and we append fields to it, like title, title is one field and the
value for that would be the title we get as an argument.
Now as you might be able to guess, we do the same for content of course.
Now it gets more interesting for the file but also not that interesting,
we append again and we give this a name of image. Now important,
this is the property we're trying to access on the back-end here,
so make sure that you've got that right
and the interesting thing here is of course I now need to add my image here,
we're not getting it as an argument yet so let's change this, here I'll get my image which will simply
be of type file.
So now I can pass my image here and I pass an extra argument which will be the file name I provide to the
back-end
and here I want to use the title the user entered for the post and keep in mind, this will be part of
the file name as it is saved on the back-end,
so this is not unimportant.
So now I'm passing the image and this title for the image
and this is my readily configured post data.
Now the cool thing about the Angular HTTP client is we can simply pass post data and it will automatically
set the right headers, detect that we got a,
well non-JSON data or data which can't be sent as JSON and all that will be handled by the Angular
HTTP client. Now on the subscription,
I just need to make sure that we still save a post and for that, I'll create my post here, post which is
of type post of course, assign my ID here which is response
data post ID, assign my title here which is the title I get as an argument and assign my content. I'll
also need to store the image of course but we don't get this back yet,
so let's do this later.
So now that's updated here in the subscription,
now we get our logic in place.
Now one thing that's missing is we're not passing the image to add post. So in the post create component
where we are calling this, I should of course forward this by accessing this form value image
and now we're extracting the image which is a control of this form and we're extracting the value and
we're passing this to add post.
Now we should indeed be able to upload a file,
so let's give this a try.
Let's enter file upload
test1 with some content and let's check or choose the spring.jpg file.
Let's hit save post, takes a while which is a good sign because uploading obviously takes a bit
longer
and now let's have a look,
we got the images folder but it's empty.
So let's check the server side log, there
I don't see any problems,
so what could be going wrong here?
Yes
I know what's wrong in our server-side-posts.js
file. When I set up multer here, passing storage like this is incorrect,
I need to pass a Javascript object which has a storage property which then should get my storage configuration.
So that was a mistake, so let's save this, let's delete the file, upload test and let's test it again.
So file upload test2 I guess,
let's pick our image again here,
let's hit save post and see if that worked.
Now looks better, in the images folder, there is our file.
So indeed, we were successful,
we did upload it.
Now of course we're missing a couple of things,
we're not telling the client where this is stored,
we need to return this
and I also want to check whether we're able to upload invalid data.
So let's go back and let's temporarily disable our front-end validation, so that we can actually submit
any file that we ignore the result of our mime type validation.
Let's enter some dummy value here, pick an image and let's pick that video file, you can of course pick
any PDF, anything which is not an image, hit open and click save.
Now that's a big
and I get an error already.
If I expand this terminal,
I get my invalid mime type error.
So this validation is working,
we're not handling the error gracefully on the client,
we'll do this later.
For now let's comment in the validation on the client
but this shows that the validation is working on the server, on the client and that we're able to upload
files.
So with that, let's continue, let's make sure we also pass back that file information to the client
so that we can use it there, that we store it in the database
and of course also that we later can update files.